>> Welcome to the What's New in Wiki Server 2 session.
My name is John Anderson and I'm
the Manager of the Wiki Server Team.
Today, we're going to be talking about some of the new
features in Snow Leopard's Wiki Server including the ability
to create wikis from the web and there are a lot of
implications from this that we're really excited about.
Next, we're going to show you how you can search
across all the wikis on your server simultaneously
and see updates for all the wikis that you care about.
We're also going to show you an iPhone-optimized
version of the wiki server and we're going
to show you web-based personal calendars, which allow you
to access not only read your calendar
but invite people to new events.
We're going to show you how you can
view documents online without needing
to download them using server side Quick Look.
And finally, we will be showing you some
new tools that we provided theme developers
so that you can extend the server in more ways than ever.
Now, before I do that, I'm going to get in to some of
the features that wiki server already has in Leopard.
And first and foremost in that is a great WYSIWYG editor,
and this means that anyone can edit
pages and it's extremely unintimidating.
However, for those of you that
actually do want to use markup,
we figured that the most well-known
markup there is, is HTML.
So you can code your pages by hand in HTML if you want to.
Now, of course, there is one asterisk
here, one caveat and that's that with HTML,
you have a risk of cross-site scripting
and something where one use or can put data
on a page that gets executed as another user.
In order to safeguard against that, we have a very versatile
HTML scrubber which you can configure however you want.
But by default, it's configured
to drop any scripting attributes
and tags that could be used to
exploit other people's sessions.
We also have a built-in weblog server
and that includes podcasting support.
So if you turn that on, you can send podcasts out
either via a great Web UI or through Podcast Producer.
We have searchable mailing list archives.
This means you can enable an email address that you can send
to, which will get cc'd out to everybody that's in the wiki
and also will get archived online for easy retrieval.
We, of course, in Leopard offered a
web-based calendar for wikis which means
that your wiki can contain its own calendar.
We've enhanced that for Snow Leopard
as well to allow for multiple calendars
in multiple colors and to allow for subscription in iCal.
But, of course, everybody here is probably here to
see what's new for Wiki Server 2 in Snow Leopard.
And first and foremost, the thing that's
really big for us this year is the fact
that wikis are no longer tied to Open Directory groups.
That means that [applause]-- that
means that a wiki is just that.
It's just a wiki.
It's not necessarily tied to any particular
entity in the directory and this means
that you can create or manage wikis from the web.
That means somebody can make a wiki from
a Windows machine, from a Mac machine,
and they don't need to be bound to Open Directory to do so.
It means that groups can have more than one wiki.
So instead of having to make duplicate groups in
your directory to handle all the different wikis
that a particular Open Directory group
wants to have, it's much more versatile now.
You are actually allowed fine-grained access permissions
which means that you can actually pick a combination
of groups and individual users and choose which of them
have read access and write access and most importantly,
and this always seems to be a big applause line, you can
have a multiple admins for a wiki now as well [applause].
This is a big one as well.
There's no need any more to run an OD
Master on the Wiki Server [applause].
And for those of you that are familiar with Snow-- with
Leopard, you may be familiar with ServicesLocator records.
It's-- I'll probably get a combination of confusion and
happiness here, but for anybody who's familiar with them,
ServicesLocator records are now
obsolete in Snow Leopard [applause].
So, when you make a decision to create wikis and
set them up with all these different attributes,
you're going to find that you have an awesome new problem,
and that problem is that you're going
to have a ton of wikis on your server.
Even within Apple's deployment, we set
up a server with our engineering group.
We set up a server for ourselves to use.
And then started and invited a couple--
inviting a couple of other groups to use it
so that we could get people actually
hammering on our Wiki Server and, you know,
test the performance with more and more users.
We've now found that that single server that
we've deployed and that we're, unfortunately,
still managing in our engineering
group, now hosts about 500 wikis.
And so, we found that we needed to do
something to make it easier to search
across all the wikis on a particular server.
And our solution to that problem is
something we would like to call "My Page."
This is something which allows you to access all the--
search across all the wikis that you have access to
and you can also see updates for all of the
pages in all the wikis that you care about.
You can set up a lot of different filters here, but
instead of talking about it, I'm actually just going
to bring Skip Baney on stage to show it to you.
So, Skip.
>> Good morning, everybody.
I hope you all are enjoying your WWDC so far.
Here's the new Snow Leopard Server homepage.
It access sort of launch pad to all of the web-based
services that you have enabled on your machine.
Since I'd like to get started by showing
you how to create a wiki on the web,
I'm going to go ahead and navigate to the wiki listing page.
Now, in order to facilitate demoing this morning,
we've created a fictional startup called Twunk.
We're all big fans of Twitter in our group and, you know,
there are just not enough third-party Twitter clients
out there, so we decided to create our own.
We already have funding and marketing
wikis and the essentials.
We're at the point where we're
ready to start building something.
So go-- let's go ahead and create an engineering wiki.
I'm going to go over into the sidebar and
click on the Create a New Wiki button.
And up appears our wiki setup assistant.
I'm going to go ahead and give it a name.
Let's give it engineering, and a short description.
[ Pause ]
>> Go ahead and click Next.
And with Leopard, we shipped a ton of great themes.
And in Snow Leopard, we've added even more, including
our default Apple theme which I've selected here.
I'm going to go ahead and click Next.
And the last thing I get to do is to
choose the wiki's access control settings.
You can choose to make this wiki publicly accessible or only
accessible to certain users or groups in your directory.
Now since this is a dead wiki, I'm going to limit
access to the people in the engineering group.
Go ahead and select that.
And because I have the Send the Email checkbox selected,
a welcome message will be sent out to all the members
of that group letting them know this wiki-- they have
been just invited to this wiki and provide a link back.
So with that, I'm going to create, and
my wiki's provisioned and ready for use.
I can go ahead and click a second time
and I'm taken directly to the wiki
where I can go ahead and get started adding new content.
Now, we're really happy with the way creating
a wiki works on Snow Leopard and we hope
that you and your users will feel the same.
I'm going to go ahead and close this window
and go back to the wiki listing page.
Now, you'll see that our engineering
wiki is now on the list.
Because I'm the person who created the wiki, I have the
ability to delete it on the web as well and I can choose
to hide updates from this wiki from the updates list,
which is a feature I'll go into in just a moment.
But, as John mentioned, when you do
make it this easy to create wikis
on the web, it becomes really difficult sometimes.
You have content spread out over a number
of different locations so you need--
we enhanced our search technology to allow you
to search across multiple wikis on your server.
So as a developer in Twunk, I want to
know what features that we're supposed
to be building now that we're getting started.
So I'll go ahead and search for features in
the Quick Search filter or Quick Search field.
And here I have a mix of likely searcher mashes
across a number of different wikis or user blogs.
I could go ahead and click on one of these items and be
taken to that page directly but I'm going to go ahead
and hit Enter and go to the full
search results listing page.
Here I can further refine my search
by any combination of type or tag.
Because I'm not really interested in blog posts, I'm
going to go ahead and filter those out of the list.
And I'm only interested in pages that are
exclusively tagged with the keyword "features."
So I'm going to go ahead and click on Features,
and there, I have exactly what I'm looking for.
Now, I can go ahead and save this as a smart filter
for use later by clicking on the link in the sidebar,
and I'll call this Project Features, and click Save.
There you have it.
Now, one thing I'd like to show-- one last thing I'd like
to show you is that we've added the ability to star pages.
Now, because starred pages can be used as
criteria in filters and saved as smart filters,
this makes it a really useful to find
just the content that you're looking for.
>> The last thing MyPage features that I'd like to
show you is the Updates List which I'll navigate
to by clicking on Updates in the primary header.
The Updates list acts as a real-time activity stream
of all the pages that you're watching on the server.
Here, I have a list of unread page
updates since the last time I visited.
I can click on one of the blue status
messages in the list to open a summary
of the recent activity that happened on this page.
Here, one-- the page has been edited,
a couple of comments have been added.
If this is not enough information for me, I can go ahead
and click on the title to go directly to that page.
But if that's enough for me to get an idea of
what's happened on that page, I can go ahead
and continue scanning through items in the list.
We've made the page dynamically resizable so that
all the items that can fit on screen will show there.
And this is really useful if you're on
the small display device and you want
to get-make maximum use of the available space.
We've also added rich application like keyboard
shortcuts such as using the Spacebar, Page Up,
Page Down as well as well as the up and down
arrow keys so you can quickly scan through items.
Now, once I've looked at everything
and I'm ready to clear out the list,
I can mark the items as read and
they quickly fade out of view
Now over on the Sidebar, we have some
common default filters that you might use.
One is all items, the other is all of the items that I've
created or edited, all the starred pages that I have as well
as all the pages that are explicitly
tagged with the word Hot.
We also include all the smart filters that
you may have saved on the Search page.
Now, smart filters combined with starring and
tagging make it really easy for you to find all
of the content that you're looking for on your server.
Now, you may have noticed that while I was talking,
a few new updates have come in through the list
because as I mentioned this is a real-time activity stream.
We found it really useful to keep this list open throughout
the day and keep abreast of what's happening on your server.
Now, the updates list is really helpful
but you're not always at your desktop.
So that's why we've created a custom
version for the iPhone that allows you
to keep abreast of updates while you're on the go.
So I'm going to ahead and close Safari and
launch the iPhone simulator to show you.
Go ahead and open Safari on the phone.
And just like the desktop version, we're
presented with the primary updates list.
I have access to all of my default and custom filters.
I can go ahead and click on the selector here in
the header and I'll go ahead and choose the save--
smart filter that I created just a few moments ago.
I'm going to list the updates and I see just those items.
Now, I can click or tap on one of
the items to go into a detailed view.
And here, I see the page title, the wiki or blog
that the page came from and the full page content.
I can tap on the Details button and
have access to the page's metadata.
There is a change recently.
So I'll go ahead and tap on Show
Changes and see what's happened.
It seems that John's prioritizing
the icon for the phase one features.
I can tap on the button again and hide changes.
And I commented on this page recently
and it looks like someone's replied.
So I'm going to ahead and tap in and see the comments.
Yeah, I'm not sure if agree either.
So I'm going to go ahead and click on the Plus
button to add a new comment straight from the phone.
Let's discuss this at the next meeting.
Post and the comment is added.
Now, I'll go ahead and return to the page detail
view and just like the updates list on the iPhone
or just like on the desktop, we have access
to star pages, we can add tags or remove tags.
And up in the header bar, we have the up or down arrows
to allow you to quickly stand through page updates.
Now, this is really helpful when you're on the go.
You can triage new activity that comes in on your
machine and we just found it to be really useful.
Go ahead and return back to the updates list.
And just like My Page on the desktop, we have access to
the Wiki listings, blog listings as well as the ability
to search across all pages on your server.
We think that viewing the wiki on an iPhone
is a fabulous experience in Snow Leopard
and the new My Page features make it easier than ever
to keep up-to-date with all the activity on your server.
So with that, I'd like to go ahead
and return things to John.
[ Applause ]
>> Thanks Skip.
So, the next thing I'd like to
talk about is the Web Calendar.
Now of course like I said in Leopard, we offered a
Web Calendar for Wikis but we now actually allow you
to access your personal Web Calendar as well.
And this is kind of neat because this is a
stand-alone service but if you have a Wiki running,
then it gets completely integrated into My Page.
Now this is a full-featured calendar
client which has full time zone support,
support for recurrences, you can even receive meetings.
You can see here, I have a notification for a new meeting.
And you can send meetings and actually
browse people's free and busy schedule right
from the web as you enter people's names.
So this is definitely a full-featured calendar client.
The really cool thing about this is that this is
actually a complete CalDAV calendar client built entirely
in JavaScript.
So it's talking directly to the calendar server.
You can embed it in any web page with just a couple of tags,
so you can add it to your own Internet site if you want to.
And that also means that since it's
talking directly to the calendar server
in a standards-based way then you can subscribe with only to
this calendar from any calendar client and you can sink it
with any CalDAV client and that includes iCal
and it also means that any changes that you make
on your web calendar will also show up an iCal on the phone.
So that's Web Calendar.
And next stop, I like to move into Server-side Quick Look
and this is always such a fun thing to demo to you guys
that I'm basically just going to hand the stage
back over to our engineer Andrew who's going
to give you a look at Server-side Quick Look.
So, Andrew?
[ Applause ]
>> Thanks John.
So I am really excited to be showing you Quick Look today.
This is something we have worked
really hard on in Snow Leopard.
In Leopard, we made it really easy to attach
documents to wiki pages and blog posts.
And this is one of the things that we're
continually getting feedback on that our users love.
So let's take a look at how we've improved
that even more with Quick Look in Snow Leopard.
So I'm going to start on My Page here which
is our great way to see updates on our server.
And on the right, I'm going to click on Star Pages where I
flag some wiki pages I'm going to be using in my demo today.
And I'm going to switch over to all here.
So the first page I want to show you is something that
our marketing team has been using to explore ideas
around our new revolutionary Twunk
brand which is a White Elephant, right.
So I'm going to click on Elephant research here and I
can see that we're already off to a pretty great start.
We've got Babar on there which is a good one.
So I've been working on the pages
documents through the week.
So my entire time at WWDC had been pretty
busy and I'm going to add that to this page.
So in the Toolbar, I'm going to
click on the Pencil icon right here.
And I'm going to get rid of this
text that someone has left me.
And back on the Toolbar, I'm going to click on the
Paperclip icon which is going to let me attach a file.
And click on Choose and grab that pages
where I've been working on and click Attach.
And you can see that this is a really great
way to share files with your team members.
But the problem is you've got to
know all these awesome new problems.
Because it's so easy to attach files to
wiki pages, you end up with a lot of them.
So more often than enough, you get more than one attachment
on a page and it's often hard to know which one you need.
And so what happens is you end up
downloading these sometimes large documents
over sometimes slow internet connections.
You get them to your desktop and you realize, "Oh,
hey I don't have the right software to open this."
So when we looked at this, we realized that we'd already
solved this in Leopard on the desktop with Quick Look.
So what we've done in Snow Leopard is
brought that right over to the Wiki Server.
So whenever we attach a file, and we click See, the Wiki
Server is automatically rendering a web compatible version
of that file that can be viewed in any
standards-compliant browser on any platform.
So let's take a look at that.
[ Applause ]
>> So because this is a multipage
document, we get thumbnails down the left
through which I can scroll through like this.
And then in my server I see the page number, and I
really get indication on where I am in the document.
And as I click in these thumbnails, you
see the preview changes in the main panel.
This is pretty cool.
So as Skip and John have both mentioned, we're a new
twitter start off and as such we're pretty struck for cash.
So I'm going to go back to My Page where I've flagged a
funding presentation, wiki page that we've been working on.
So we're working on this PowerPoint
presentation to show potential investors
and trying to get some cash together, right.
So let's go ahead and preview that
PowerPoint file in the web.
So, just like before, we can flip
through the pages of the presentation.
If this presentation had presenter's notes or
notes or annotations, they will show up right here.
So, one thing I haven't shown you about Quick Look
is that I can resize its window up, and back down.
[ Applause ]
>> And you notice that the preview stays
beautifully centered right in the web browser.
And as in my server, the main area,
we got some options here.
So the middle one is I can download this attachment so
I've Quick Look it and I know this is the one I want,
so I can download it right to my
laptop or my desktop or wherever I am.
But on the left here, we have this Fit to
Screen button which lets me go full screen
and I can see our previews in all
their glory and pan around.
This is really great.
So from looking at this page, there's something funny here.
I think I'm missing an attachment.
So the good thing about Quick Look is that we've
built that into the document revisions on wiki page.
So if you're not familiar with the Leopard Wiki Server,
we've a really great way of seeing changes to a page
by viewing its document history and as each person
has made a change, you see a summary of their change.
And it looks like John made a really helpful edit to
this page and deleted the file I need at my demo today.
So luckily, Quick Look is to the rescue.
I'm going to go back and look at this
revision and I can Quick Look this attachment.
Yeah, this is the numbers presentation that we
were-- or the numbers that we were looking at.
I'm going to click Restore, click OK and
that attachments now back in the page.
[ Applause ]
>> So the last thing that I want to show you about
Quick Look is support for your custom file types.
This is something we've worked really hard
on Snow Leopard to make sure that it's going
to work with your custom applications as well.
There's one thing that I should mention here that this
requires that the Quick Look generator be installed
on the server but there are no dependencies on the clients.
So any client from any web browser can
view the files as long as Quick Look--
the Quick Look generator is installed on
the server for that particular file type.
So I just got an email this morning and
it has our latest application walkthrough.
So I'm going to type in iPhone
walkthrough, create a new page here.
And it just so happens that we're using a really great
application called OmniGraffle to do our walkthrough.
And I'm going to choose that Graffle
file right here and click Attach.
And you notice a few things.
So Safari for-- in Snow Leopard is automatically
recognizing that the OmniGraffle file is a bundle.
So in plain language that means that it's a folder.
So what we're doing here is on the wire, we're zipping the
file and transferring it and as the Wiki Server receives
that zipped file, we're inspecting the zip file and
recognizing that there is a Quick Look of a document inside.
So like before, I can Quick Look this document.
This is an OmniGraffle file, and remember
[applause] that client has no [applause]--
the client does not have OmniGraffle installed here.
So like before, I can resize the window and I can pan.
So we can actually step through the
stages of our iPhone application.
This is really great.
So I hope you'll agree that our Quick Look
is an awesome feature in Wiki Server 2
and lets you preview documents on Wiki pages and blog posts.
So these are the-- this has been a real productivity
boost that Apple on our internal Wiki Server particularly
when a lot of us are around on campus during the
day and we don't have access to our desktop machines
and maybe on laptops that don't have the right software.
So with that I'd like to pass this back to John.
[ Applause ]
>> There are few additional features
that I'd like to go over.
We're not actually going to demo them
today but they're important enough
that I figured that we should talk about them.
All of these things again are standalone services
so they will run independently of the Wiki Server.
But the cool thing is all of these are
available inside at My Page integrated
with everything else if the Wiki Server is running.
The first one that I think everybody is going to be really
happy about is web-based password change [applause].
This does require, in order to turn this on, you do need
to have SSL enabled on your web server for obvious reasons.
But, it means that you can actually direct your
users now to a website to change their password.
And this works with any Open Directory system.
So depending on your setup, you can actually use the
web-based password change integrated with the Wiki Server
to even change your active directory
passwords, so that's pretty cool.
[Applause] Next up, I'd like to
talk about server side email rules.
We actually did some work with
the mail server to set this up.
And again, this is integrated in the
Wiki Server if you have it enabled.
This means that you can filter all of your email before
it arrives in your inbox, and this is a great boon
to iPhone users who want to-- who don't want to open up
their inbox and see a bunch of mailing list stuff show up.
Hand in hand with that of course,
we also offer vacation notices.
And so this means that you can set a
timed email rule to automatically apply--
to automatically reply to every message that
comes in during the time period when you're away.
And so that's some of the additional features we've added
that we've integrated into the Wiki Server if it's running.
Next I'd like to talk about some of the new
tools that we have for theme developers.
And now of course in Leopard, you could do a lot
to extend your Wiki and customize it using themes.
So you can add your own functionality, you can add your
own CSS, but we've added a lot of new stuff in Snow Leopard
that we're actually pretty excited about.
I would suggest that anybody that wants to brush up on
creating themes for the Wiki Server were actually going
to have some documentation reference
at the end of this session.
However, right now, I'd like to just kind of recap by going
over what makes up at any page sent out by the Wiki Server.
So the first thing that we send out is the Theme CSS.
This is your CSS and it defines the look
and feel and the visual presentation
of the Wiki Server when your theme is selected.
The next thing we send out is the required System CSS.
We send this out last because it generally defines the
overall layout of the page as well as the look and feel
and icons for all of the toolbars
and functionality that we add.
We next send out the System JavaScript.
This basically creates all the functionality
you've seen here for Quick Look and editing pages,
all of that client-side functionality
sent out at this point.
And next, we send out the Theme
JavaScript, and this is your JavaScript.
And this is primarily what we're
going to be getting into today.
But this is where you can actually add
your own functionality to supplant our own.
So the first thing that we've added-- that we've used really
heavily internally and decided to go ahead and document
for you guys here is the concept of shared instances.
Now, this is something that we'd borrowed from Cocoa,
there's a lot of things in Cocoa that have shared instances
and we did this by extending the class functionality that's
present in the really great prototype JavaScript library.
So in JavaScript, you would generally create
a JavaScript class by using Class.create.
We added some thing called Class.create.WithSharedInstance
and this is basically going to create a global
that you can refer to an instance of your
class by and it will create it on demand.
So this is a great way to make your pages continue
to perform well but add your own functionality to it.
And if I should go through this
example code, you can see here,
I've created my class using Class.create.WithSharedInstance.
And the first argument I'm passing to this
function is the name of the shared instance.
So this is the name by which I'm going
to refer to this instance of this class
and it will get created automatically
whenever it needs to be.
However, the second argument I'm sending which is a
Boolean, that's optional, if you passed through here,
then your class will get automatically
instantiated when the document is loaded.
And this is actually even faster than
attaching something to the window loading.
This is going to happen as soon as the document object
is available, so that means that there's no delay
when adding your own functionality to page like there would
be if you attach something to the window's unload handler.
And then of course, you define the prototype
with an initialized method as is dictated
by the structure of the prototype library.
So that showed instances and that's a great way to add
your functionality without having to hook into some
of the methods that we have or hack
into some of the methods we have.
You can just add your own functionality in the themes
and have it automatically pull out when any page loads.
When you're doing this of course, one of the things that
we've found we needed to do and we've figured you would
as well is to start listening for events
that happened on the Wiki's content.
And this is how you can actually add your own functionality
to these pages and do it much easier than you could before.
If any of you are really familiar
with Cocoa, this is basically--
we kind of stole this from the
idea of the NSNotificationCenter.
>> You have these messages that get sent out.
You can publish your own messages.
You can subscribe to them and you can subscribe
to some that are sent out by the Wiki Server.
And you can see in this sort of poorly drawn cloud
here that there's a ton of these messages that we send
out when people Quick Look documents, attach things,
change content, start and finish editing, tag, everything.
So to show you an example of how you would set up
and how you would listen for these notifications.,
you could see here I've created a class
again with Class.createWithSharedInstance.
I have an initialized method here that tells
the publisher shared instance that I would
like to subscribe to a message using publisher.subscribe.
The first argument I pass to this is the call back
I want to be ran when that message gets thrown.
And then of course the message that I want to listen for,
and then you could see below that I've defined my call back.
This is really cool.
I think that, you know, it takes a little bit, maybe
to wrap your head around it but I think to that end,
we have a great demo that's going to show you what's
possible with some of the notification API in Snow Leopard.
So Andrew, I would like to bring you up to show that to us.
>> So we spent some time last week writing
a little showcase of this new notification
on Class.createWithSharedInstance
technology on Snow Leopard.
And what we've come up with is a way of providing
syntax highlighting for code snippets in a wiki page.
This is all done as part of a custom theme and I've
created a new wiki already called Developer Demo
and to this I've applied the custom theme.
So, I'm going to go ahead here and create a
new page and let's call that Code Snippet.
I'll click Create.
And those of you familiar with the Leopard Wiki
Server might notice that we have a new button here
in the toolbar and as I mouse over that.
It's going to tell me that I can intact--
insert some syntax-highlighted code.
So when I click on that, we get this neat little dialog
that lets me either paste or type in that Code Snippet
and I've got one prepaste on here, not that one.
I'm just going to paste that in--
sorry, excuse me, give me a second.
And choose the language, and this is Python since
this is calculating the Fibonacci sequence of numbers.
[Applause] And click OK.
And you see that that code is inserted in the page.
So using the new notifications, we're going
to listen for when this page is getting saved.
And when it is, we're going to transform
this code and make it really pretty.
So I'm going to click Save here and there we go.
[ Applause ]
>> So let's take a look at how you can achieve
something fairly similar on your themes.
Just a disclaimer here first, I'm not going
to cover the structure of a Wiki theme.
If you're interested in that, you can download last year's
Extending Your Wiki Server Session which should be available
on iTunes or look at the documentation that we're
going to reference at the end of this session.
Also for the syntax highlighting,
were using a third party library.
But you could pretty much substitute any library
or write your own if you're feeling adventurous.
So with that said, let's look at this code.
So the WWDC JavaScript file is our
main JavaScript file in our theme.
And like what we've been talking about, I'm creating this
new code snippet controller share instance on the page.
So this is going to be available
globally as code snippet controller.
And because I'm passing through here
as a second argument that they're going
to structure, this gets created on page load.
So just like other prototype-extended classes, the
first thing that's get called here is initialize.
So whenever we initialize this new
object, this function gets called.
And my first step is to check that we're on a
page that has some sort of editable content.
And I'm doing that by using prototype mutation to
look for something that has an ID of editable content.
And that is this ID that we applied for our Wiki
Editor which is on both Wiki Pages and blog post.
And if we don't find that, I'm returning this
new keyword in Snow Leopard called invalidate.
So invalidate is-- it's something that's
going to destroy the shared instance
in a case that you may not want it anymore.
And in this case, if I'm not on the page that's editable,
so I'm not on the page on which I can insert code,
then I don't want to have this
shared instance hanging around.
And this invalidate keyword is
going to clean that up for you.
So the next 2 lines are something I'm going to skip over.
The first one is for adding the custom
toolbar button and the second one is
for initializing the code snippet dialog in the background.
So this is using some DOM manipulation, the builder
library, script.aculo.us library, the prototype library.
If you're interested in that, you
can download the source code
from our session website and look at that in more detail.
But the interesting part of the
initialize method is the last 2 lines here.
So here we're asking this publisher shared
instance to watch for whenever we go both into
and out of an idle edit mode on the page.
And we're doing that by calling publisher.subscribe
and we're listening for both DID_START_EDITING
and DID_FINISH notifications, DID_FINISH_EDITING
notifications.
And when we get those call backs, we're calling
REMOVE_SYNTAX_HIGHLIGHTING and ADD_SYNTAX_HIGHLIGHTING.
So I'm going to scroll past the next few methods which
like I said before are just repeating some UI magic
in the background and scroll right down
to this ADD_SYNTAX_HIGHLIGHTING function.
So what's actually happening behind the
curtain whenever we insert code into the pages,
is we're just adding a pretag to the markup.
It's really simple.
And when we come back out of editing mode,
we get the DID_FINISH_EDITING notification
and this function gets called.
So the first step is to use the prototype $$
notation to find all the pretags on the page.
And after we've got those we use a little closure
here and then we're calling our third party library
to make those pretty so to add colors, to
add line numbers, to add formatting depending
on the lines that we've chosen to pop up.
And on the flip side of that, when we go back into Edit
Mode, we want to strip by to all that extra formatting rate,
so we're pretty much doing the opposite
of what ADD_SYNTAX_HIGHLIGHTING does.
So this is a really simple example of what you
can achieve with the new notification stuff
and the Class.createwithSharedInstances in Snow Leopard,
I would really encourage you to check the stuff either
if you're a theme developer, I think
you'd like getting involved in this.
It's helped us a lot in Snow Leopard.
I would also encourage you to download,
adopt, and extend this sample code.
It's fairly simple and it's fairly well commented,
so you should be able to follow it pretty easily.
So with that, I guess I can't wait to see your
custom themes and I like to pass it back to John.
[ Applause ]
>> Thanks Andrew.
So you've seen today how it's really
easy to create new wikis via the web.
We provided a way to search across all wikis and see
information for wikis you care about really easily.
We've shown you how you can view
all of your documents without having
to download them using server-side Quick Look.
We've talked about some of the stuff on how wikis
are created without groups and we've shown you some
of the things you can do as a theme developer
to extend the wiki in more ways than ever.
I would suggest if you're going to start with writing a
theme that you consult our award-winning documentation
and extending your Wiki Server is a great place to start.
This is against Leopard but the basic
theme API has not changed for Snow Leopard
with the exception of things we went through today.
I would also suggest if you're going to write
some of the things like Andrew showed you today,
that you look at a couple of the libraries that we based
the Wiki Server on, primarily being a prototype of course
and script.aculo.us as well which is what we
use to build a lot of our UI onto the screen.